---
layout: member
title: "Konstantinos Psannis"
position: Collaborator
nickname: Konstantions
handle: dad
email: kpsannis@uom.edu.gr
scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=u7iiwdgAAAAJ&hl=th
image: /assets/images/team/psanis.png

alum: false
---

Konstantinos E. Psannis (Member, IEEE) was born in Thessaloniki, Greece. He received the degree in physics from the Faculty of Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, and the Ph.D. degree from the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering, School of Engineering and Design, Brunel University, London, U.K. He is currently an Associate Professor of communications systems and networking with the Department of Applied Informatics, School of Information Sciences, University of Macedonia, Greece, the Director of the Mobility2net Research and Development and Consulting JP-EU Laboratory, and a member of the EU-JAPAN Centre for Industrial Cooperation. He has more than 60 publications in international scientific journals and more than 70 publications in international conferences. His published works has more than 3000 citations (H-index 25, i10-index 52). He supervises two postdoctoral students and eight Ph.D. students. His research interests include digital media communications, media coding/synchronization, and transport over a variety of networks, from the theoretical as well as the practical points of view. His recent work has been directed toward the demanding digital signals and systems problems arising from the various areas of ubiquitous big data/media and communications. This work was supported by research grants and contracts from various government organizations. He has participated in joint research works funded by Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research, the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS), the KAKENHI Grant, The Telecommunications Advancement Foundation, the International Information Science Foundation, as a Principal Investigator and a Visiting Consultant Professor with the Nagoya Institute of Technology, Japan. From 2001 to 2002, he was awarded the British Chevening Scholarship. The Chevening Scholarships are the U.K. Government’s Global Scholarship Programme, funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organizations. The programme makes awards to outstanding scholars with leadership potential from around the world to study at universities in U.K. He was invited to speak on the EU-Japan Co-ordinated Call Preparatory Meeting, Green and Content Centric Networking (CCN), organized by European Commission (EC) and the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT)/Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC), Japan (in the context of the upcoming ICT Work Programme 2013), and International Telecommunication Union (ITU-founded in 1865), SG13 meeting on DAN/CCN, Berlin, in July 2012, amongst other invited speakers. He received the Joint-Research Award from the Institute of Electronics, Information and Communication Engineers, Japan, the Technical Committee on Communication Quality, in July 2009, and the Joint-Research Encouraging Prize from the IEICE Technical Committee on Communication Systems (CS), in July 2011. He has been included in the list of Top 2% Scientists in the world (prepared by Stanford University, USA, in October 2020). He is also the TPC Co-Chair of the International Conference on Computer Communications and the Internet (ICCCI 2020), the Nagoya Institute of Technology, Japan, ICCCI June 2020, at Nagoya, Japan, and will be held on June 2021, at Nagoya, and the Conference Chair at the World Symposium on Communications Engineering held at the University of Macedonia, in October 2020, and to be held at the University of Macedonia, in August 2019 and 2021, Thessaloniki (WSCE 2021). He has been serving as an Associate Editor for IEEE Access and IEEE Communications Letters. He is a Lead Associate Editor of the Special Issue on Roadmap to 5G: Rising to the Challenge of IEEE Access in 2019. He is a Guest Editor of the Special Issue on Compressive Sensing-Based IoT Applications of Sensors in 2020 and the Special Issue on Advances in Baseband Signal Processing, Circuit Designs, and Communications of Information in 2020. He is a Lead Guest Editor of the Special Issue on Artificial Intelligence for Cloud Based Big Data Analytics of Big Data Research in 2020.